OK, next up, we're going to learn about the compare to method, this method can basically tell you
the order in which two strings are relative to each other, in other words, four Latin strings or Latin
text.
It can let you know which string comes first in alphabetical order.
But it can also do this for non Latin text, which is actually pretty cool.
So it has a notion of awareness, if you will, of the rules of order for text in other languages.
OK, so to show how this works will, as usual, create two strings first.
Word equals, and I don't know, let's make it Apple and second word equals banana.
And we'll use our trusty system out that print line, and we will just do something like first word
that compare to second word.
All right.
And so if we run this, we get a negative one.
Now, the way that the compare to method works is pretty simple.
It takes the string that it is part of.
So in other words, the first string here and it compares it to the second string.
If the first string comes before the second string, then the compare to method returns a negative number,
something less than zero.
If the first string is the same as the second string, then compared to returns a zero.
And if the first string would come after the second string, then compared to returns, a positive number
or a number greater than zero.
OK.
So it's fairly straightforward in that regard.
So if we were to change this word here, banana to apple, just like so and then rerun this, we now
get a zero because they are the same.
And then if we were to change this second word to a word that comes before Apple in alphabetical order
for Latin characters such as Aardvark, let's run this.
OK.
So, yeah, we're getting a positive number now because Apple comes after Aardvark.
All right, now, there's another variation of the compare to method, and that is compared to ignore
case, and this does pretty much exactly what it sounds like it does.
It ignores case so well, actually, first, if we would go back here and I'm going to make this word
Apple also, but let's make that with a lowercase a.
And now let's see what we get.
So before when we had both Capital A for Apple and Apple, we got a zero because they were the same.
What do we get now?
OK, so now it's saying that Apple, with a capital A. comes before Apple with a lowercase A. So there's
a difference here.
Right?
However, if we switch over to using the ignore case version now, let's run it and see.
Now we get a zero.
OK, so the ignore case literally just ignores the case, right?
And internally, it may be doing that by simply lower casing both strings and then comparing them or
upper casing both strings and then comparing them something like that.
Which is why when we learned about upper and lower case earlier, I said that sometimes you'll want
to do things like that and even stripping, leading and trailing spaces out of words and strings so
that you can kind of normalize the string before you compare it.
OK.
And so presumably something along those lines is probably what this method is doing.
OK, so that should give you some insights as to how you maybe could write that method yourself or at
least a part of it.
All right.
And then the last thing I want to show probably won't be very applicable to many people, but it's kind
of a neat little thing.
I think that the creators of Java took the time to do this, and that is the fact that this works not
only with Latin based strings, but with texts of other languages as well.
So I'm going to enter some Korean text.
As a demonstration here.
So I'm going to switch over to Korean and I'll type a word like Qana.
OK.
And then here, I'll do the opposite.
Nagar.
All right.
Now I happen to know that in the Korean language car comes before NA.
So that's their alphabet alphabetical order, if you will.
OK, so this word of should come before Naga.
Let's see what what the ID has to say here, and I guess I can leave the ignore case.
Because Korean doesn't actually have case.
OK, so indeed, the Java is saying that Ghana comes before Nagar.
All right.
And now if I change the second word to just.
Car like that.
Now let's see what we get.
OK, now we get a positive number, meaning that the second word would come alphabetically before the
first word, which is correct.
So this just gives you a little bit of a glimpse into the fact that the compare to Method is actually
even aware of alphabetical rules.
And I'm using that term loosely because there's lots of language systems that don't use an alphabet.
But you know what I mean?
It's aware of the alphabet medical rules in different character sets or languages, essentially beyond
just Latin.
I'm going to give a little challenge now just as we implemented our own version of the strip method
before.
Why don't you try creating your own version of the compare to Ignore case method, which will be based
on the compare to method?
So in other words, you don't need to create your own compare to method you'll use compared to, but
you'll implement a little bit extra so that it can ignore the case and you can do it the same way that
we did before, so you can add a static method.
Now I'm going to give you a little hint here that it needs to return an integer, OK?
And you can name it the same compared to ignore case and it can take a string.
So you'd want to have two inputs.
I don't know, I'm just going to call mine text one and string text to OK and then go ahead and see
if you can implement your own version of the Compare to Ignore case, where you're still going to use
the compare to method, but you're going to implement a way to ignore the case on your own.
And go ahead and pause the video.
See if you can work that out, and then I will see you when you get back.
OK, so let's see how you did.
Let me show you a way that I might go about doing this.
I think what I would do is first, I might actually create two new local variables, so maybe I'll do
something like lower text.
One equals text one dot to lowercase.
Then lower text two equals text to two, lower to lower case.
Now, of course, what you name these variables doesn't really matter, but it should be something that's
kind of meaningful.
All right.
Then I can now do something like return.
Lower tax, one that compare to.
Lower text to.
Just like that.
And so by doing this, we have created our own poor man's version of the ignore case method, essentially,
now I'm excluding all the distinctions of local here.
I'm not getting quite that fancy with it.
But let's see here, so if we go back to a simpler example of Apple vs. Oops versus yikes.
Versus.
Apple like so.
And and we're going to change this out to call our method now compare to ignore case.
First word come a second word just like that, OK?
So now let's run this, and hopefully we should get a zero.
Cool.
So we did get a zero, so looks like that is working.
All right.
So that's a way that you could use the two lowercase to implement your own partial version of the compare
to ignore case method.
OK.
All right.
And that's going to rapid.
Wrap it up for this lesson, and I'll see you in the next one.